can you guys believe that this account
is a throwaway that was made in the
1700s
wow so i forgot how to socialize titled
pretty much says it all the most
i usually do in a friendly conversation
is an occasional quip and most of the
time i sit on the sidelines watching
everyone else do what they do
my brain simply goes blank when i have
to consider how to express myself
i don't even know what chatting with
people means i'm on the spectrum so it's
probably some innate some parts innate
disadvantage in some parts in experience
from what i could gather i have some
sort of fear of getting in other
people's way or not having anything to
contribute or otherwise cannot tell how
they will react
there's also this sense of feeling like
they will have to accommodate me in my
strangeness as well as that of having
rest some resting [ __ ] face and a
tendency to glare
i do find as long as all parties have
some well-defined role in the
interaction eg cashier or customer and
in fact have some semblance of willpower
when troubling other people is not a
significant risk
honestly speaking i don't know where to
begin from here aside from tackling it
head-on by forcing myself into random
conversations wherever i feel like it
there should be some way to at least
make that process less jarring
so porn throwaway i certainly hope we
can make this process less jarring from
you for you
so what we're going to do
in order to make it instead of just
saying forcing yourself into random
conversations
we're going to start by understanding
why it's difficult for you to socialize
understand what's going on in your brain
that makes it come up with a blank
because here's the problem right like
when you try to socialize
your brain draws a blink
and so it becomes really really hard to
socialize if your brain is drawing a
blank so let's start by understanding
how does your brain draw blank where
does that blank come from why is it
coming up link and if we can understand
how it draws a blank and then we can
understand how to change that so it no
longer comes up blank then the process
should be a lot easier for you and you
won't have to force yourself into stuff
okay
so let's start by understanding a little
bit about how brains draw blinks
so
when i set a task
my brain tends to come up with how to
accomplish it right so if i say
man i'm really thirsty i don't need to
say that i think i'm really thirsty and
then my brain is like oh there's a water
cup here
problem solved right so our brain when
we set a task
our brain will operationalize that task
so the term opera opera
operate
operationalizing
is the process of breaking apart
one large task into its individual
components it's the execution component
okay
so
i'll give you all an example so if i you
know i have a six-year-old and a
four-year-old and their brain's ability
to operationalize tasks is like
different so i can tell my six-year-old
go pack a bag for the weekend and she
can like take that complex task
and if i tell her what like if i give
her the goal her brain will tell her
what to do so the brain is like okay i
have to go get clothing i have to go
grab my toothbrush i need to go get
something to read i need to go get this
i need to get toys so the brain will
like execute and won't come up blank
if i tell my four-year-old go pack a bag
for the weekend her brain is gonna be
like
i don't know what that is like
if i break it down for her she can
understand it
but she can't operationalize the task
she can't like break it apart okay
so if you're drawing a blank in
in social situations the problem is that
the goal that you have your brain
doesn't know how to get there
which in turn leaves two solutions one
is we can try to operationalize towards
the goal or or
what i think is going to be simpler
is we can change the goal in our mind so
that the brain can follow suit with like
what it's supposed to do
okay
so for example
humanity in general is becoming less
able to operationalize so if we look at
society and especially how our brain
functions
more stuff is being done for us so this
is absolutely true for gamers so if you
look at video games they're very good at
like close-ended problem solving
so the game will give you the goal and
will give you the pieces for the goal
and will allow you to assemble them to
get there so a good example of this is a
puzzle in a video game a puzzle in a
video game has a set solution and all
the pieces are given to you you just
have to like put them together in the
right way
the problem is that like so games will
also give you like you know like markers
right so they'll be like okay go here
and talk to this person first then go
there and talk to their it like lays
everything out for you you never have to
figure out what to do
whereas like if you look at life it's
like
how many jobs should i apply for like
how many applications should i figure
out i don't know
like in an mmo it's like fill out 10
applications like go deliver these 10
applications these 10 people like go do
this fetch quest it breaks everything
apart for you and it's not just games
right it's also things like technology
so
you know when i log into netflix or i
load up youtube like i don't even have
to figure out what to watch
like youtube will tell me what to watch
it'll be like hey what do you feel like
right now here's this list of choices
what do you want to learn about today
i don't have to like decide for myself
what i want to learn about i'm just
going to log into reddit or i'm going to
log into youtube and it's going to do
all that work for me
so the process of like
breaking apart a problem and doing
open-ended problem solving like if i'm
trying to figure out what to major in
even that is like narrow right because
the college provides me with majors
on a broader level it's like what do i
do with my life like no one knows how to
answer that question because as a
society we are having things broken down
into choices for us it's all multiple
choice there's no like free answer
anymore right it's like what are you
going to major in are you going to go
into college or you can go to trade
school you're going to do this you
become a crypto bro like what are you
doing
so as our brain
has had to do less abstract open-ended
problem solving because literally most
of the time it is like
being prompted to react to stuff
like these kinds of things happen where
our brain doesn't know like what am i
supposed to do in a social interaction
it's like what what are what are the
goals of the social interaction like i'm
confused like where's the quest marker
what am i supposed to do like i need
someone to explain this to me and we can
even see that this person clearly is
this way because look look at this
i do find as
as long as all parties have some
well-defined role in the interaction the
quest has been given to me
your quest is to go and purchase a bell
pepper very good i can do that i know
what the goal is i know exactly how to
interact i'm going to go and present
them to the hand the cashier the bell
pepper
they will ring up the bell pepper i
shall pull out the wallet
i shall give them the money i shall take
the bell pepper i shall say thank you i
shall smile and i shall move on with my
day success quest completed gain 300 xp
so we can see that this person does fine
as long as there are bounds to the
conversation
right but i don't even know what
chatting
what chatting with people means
it's like so this is a situation where
we have forgotten how to socialize
because chatting is a sandbox game it's
like what's the point there's no quest
marker like i don't understand
chatting is a sandbox game
like what's the point there isn't a
point and now your brain gets super
confused it's like how do i how do i
operationalize how do i get from point a
to point z and there there is no point z
there's just like i don't understand
where i'm supposed to go and then the
brain draws up blank
doesn't mean you're dumb or anything on
the contrary it's it's a it's a huge
problem where people are like forgetting
how to socially interact because we're
so many everything is a multiple choice
so even like tinder right like i forget
how to talk to people if i use tinder
and we see it on tinder by the way
right where it's like now the app is
just gonna give me people and i have to
swipe right or swipe left
i never have to approach anyone and then
they will send me a text and i will
respond and it's like everything is
being done for us so social we're
forgetting how to socialize
so
this is where if you're in this
situation the main thing that you really
need to do
is understand what the goal of the
interaction is right so we're going to
talk a little bit about this
so when you're chatting with someone
this is the goal
it's a brief opportunity to get to know
the other person
okay this is the way that i want you to
think about it this is just a chance for
you to figure out is this someone that i
want to interact with in the future or
not that should be goal number one and
so then your brain will be like okay
well how do i figure that out well it's
like maybe ask them some questions about
themselves
so you know you introduce yourself and
then you're like hey can you tell me a
little bit about yours i mean that's a
hard question to answer
but you can say like you know what are
you excited for in 2022 that's a great
like
opener what are you worried about in
right you can even go like you don't
even have to ask a question
you can even say like some neutral
response like man i can't believe it's
20 22. it's crazy the other person could
be like yeah it's crazy
it's like so what what are you you know
what's 2022 looking like for you
so you can just like
just start to ask a couple of questions
and remember the goal is just to figure
out like do i want to hang out with this
person ever again
second thing is to think a little bit
about your goal
yourself in the interaction so this is
where it's an opportunity to share a
little bit about yourself that's the
purpose of chatting it's not like you're
not trying to get this person to like
you it's to just share a little bit
about yourself right so man i can't
believe it's like 20 22 it's nuts
they're like yeah man it's nuts i'm like
yeah i've got like
you won't believe like towards the end
of 2021 i made this post about gender
dynamics and like a ton of people that i
you know like hanging out with
went nuts and so now i'm trying to
figure out like what to do with that
so you kind of you kind of just share
something about yourself right so like
you're it's an opportunity for for you
to share a piece of yourself
just don't share d's nuts
okay and then if you share something
like that you'll see what the other
person does so this is like the
socialization is about hitting the ball
across the net and then you'll see what
they hit back
okay so it's an opportunity to get to
know someone and it's an opportunity to
share a piece of yourself
and the main thing to understand about
these brief social interactions is that
they're brief that nothing has to come
out of them if you understand how to
chat like nothing has to come out of
this understand that this person is
going to be alive for the next 50 or 60
years
just assume that for a moment that
you're going to be alive for the next 50
or 60 years
in the grand scheme of things you have
one moment in time where the two of you
are together and you have an opportunity
to exchange something which could turn
into a second conversation or friends or
whatever
but at the end of the day like if you
say something wrong like that's not that
big of a deal it's not like you've
ruined this person's life they're going
to go on and live their life you're
going to go on and live your life and at
the end of the day this is just a brief
chance meeting
right
it's like
if i walk outside and i look at a tree
this is a brief interaction between me
and the tree the tree doesn't really
care that i appreciate it or don't
appreciate it i don't really care that
the tree appreciates me or doesn't
appreciate me we're just in each other's
presence we're just going to kind of
chill for a little bit together and then
we're going to go our separate ways
so when it comes to chatting it's just
an opportunity to
have your life
very very gently intersect with someone
else's life and something could come out
of that meeting or nothing the high
likelihood is nothing is going to come
out of the meeting which is totally fine
and that's what life is it's a string of
experiences that have no real
consequences
right that's what the majority of life
is every time i take a breath
it's not going to transform the world
every time i take a walk around my house
every time i meet another human being
i'm not going to transform their life
they're not going to transform mine
it's just a tiny little opportunity for
you to get to know someone else and for
you to share a little bit about yourself
that's all it is
and once you begin to realize that it
actually doesn't matter what happens
today like it doesn't i'm not going to
ruin this person's life i'm not going to
save their life they're not going to
ruin my life they're not going to save
my life you can sort of be a little bit
relaxed right so what's the purpose of a
sandbox game
is to build something cool it's like a
multiplayer sandbox game where it's like
i'm going to put some stuff together and
like i'll see if you want to put some
similar stuff together
and if you want to build a hot and i
want to build a car like you're building
your hut and i'm going to build my car
and i'm like that's okay
eventually what will happen if you
enter into sandbox games with enough
people is i will build a car and then
you will build a car too and then i'll
walk over it'll be like wow that's a
really cool car i never thought about
making the wheels purple i always
assumed i would make the wheels black
and the other person is like no no man
purple wheels are so much better than
black wheels i'll be like
cool
i never thought about that oh maybe i'll
make a red wheel i was like yeah that's
dope make a red wheel
and then suddenly like you have a friend
right
and so this is this is how social
interaction works
so if you're struggling to understand
social interaction
first thing to understand is that our
brain has been
sort of shaped
by
too much choice so instead of figuring
things out for ourselves whether it be
quest markers and video games or going
on to youtube or twitch and like it
tells you what to enjoy right even today
like you guys are showing up to this
lecture you're watching this video and
it's like you didn't decide hey this is
what i want to seek out you just like
showed up on youtube or on twitch or
whatever and dr k chose what they're
going to talk about so you're just given
the choice
and so social interaction can become
very very difficult because there's not
a clear choice to make there's not a
clear goal and so like your mind draws a
blank because the way that your mind
populates with thoughts is that it has a
particular target and then it figures
out how to get there so if i'm thirsty
i'm gonna drink some water
it has a goal and then it sets up the
steps so if your mind is drawing a blank
that means that you don't know what goal
to set
and so if you want a very simple goal to
set if you want to understand what's the
purpose of chatting
the purpose of chatting is to have an
opportunity to get a window into someone
else's life
get a window into their thought process
to learn a little bit about them and to
share a little bit about yourself
and out of the thousand people that
you're going to meet in the next three
years
a handful of those that'll turn into
something else but you don't need to
seek that out you don't need to look for
it you don't need to be tied to it it's
just an opportunity for you to you know
interact with another human being and if
nothing comes of it so be it
right
questions
ah so this is a great question
so high cardio is asking what if it's a
grill and by that i assume you mean girl
so i know this is going to be kind of
mind-blowing
very difficult to understand
but the genitalia of the person that
you're talking to makes no difference
with how you should interact with them
i know it's shocking
that just because they have genitals
that are different from yours or maybe
they're the same and and you're in
you're lesbian who knows
assuming a heteronormative perspective
there but i don't know many lesbians
that refer to other women as grills
so maybe that's a safe assumption on my
part
makes no difference
shocking
that humans are humans
and the genitals don't matter
don't treat them differently
treat them like humans
they can like cars too just like get
into the sandbox game and build what you
want to build let them build what they
want to build
and interact with them as people
the genitalia does not need to define
the interaction
shocking i know
confusing i know
humans first i understand that some
people struggle with that that that's
that makes sense
but then the question is like where does
that struggle come from right so if you
have difficulty talking to
the opposite sex or girls or the sex
that you're attracted to however
where does that difficulty come from
that difficulty comes from
setting a goal that you don't know how
to execute right so now like i'm playing
a sandbox game or i'm playing let's say
skyrim
and
i'm given a quest of
you know mine a thousand minerals and a
thousand gas
and then i get super confused because
like i don't know how to accomplish that
in this game like it gets confusing for
me i don't know how to do this then i
get anxious
right because it's like so stop playing
that game like don't worry about and
don't have an expectation to the
interaction don't try to do something
because they're a girl like that's where
the problem is coming from the problem
is coming from the goal that you set for
yourself
the expectation that you set for
the demand that you put on yourself that
this expectation should go a certain way
it's like no this is just a brief
interaction with another random human
being and the more that you can reframe
towards that the easier it will be to
talk to like women
right does that make sense it's all like
up in here
who randomly meets 300 people a year so
like
i don't know if you guys are
participating in chat but there seemed
to be 5 315 people right now each of
whom is interacting with you
and people are adding each other right
so like oh like i'm an indoor like
you're interacting with like 5 000
people right now
right like you're interacting with
people all the time
sure no no no no hold on a second hold
on a second before you guys discount
this kind of interaction this is real
you can hop on discord afterward you're
going to talk to other people like you
meet 300 people a year on discord
through games and through twitch don't
tell me otherwise
right and people will respond to each
other on chat people will answer each
other's questions like those
interactions and that's easy why because
there's no expectation
right you all get that
we meet more people now than we used to
we have more opportunities for
interaction than we used to
this is the big paradox of like being
online is that there's like way more
people to meet and it's like somehow
it's way harder to meet them it's kind
of weird but you can't you i can
absolutely do it right you can have a
meaningful conversation with someone i
actually think that the discord is
really good at this where it's like
because people can sort of offer support
they can like meet for a moment in time
and there's no expectation that's why
it's so easy to hang out with people on
discord because you're not expecting
anything from them
you